$Id: README 18096 2011-01-31 21:51:07Z rsh $

Note: This README file is no longer being actively maintained.  Please refer
to the arp-scan wiki at http://www.nta-monitor.com/wiki/ for up-to-date
information about installing and using arp-scan.

Installation
------------

You will need the make utility, an ANSI C compiler (for example gcc), the
development header files and libraries, and libpcap version 0.8 or later.

If you want to run the Perl scripts arp-fingerprint, get-oui and get-iab, you
will need to have the Perl interpreter installed.  These scripts were tested
on Perl 5.8, but will probably run on earlier versions of Perl 5 as well.
In addition, for get-oui and get-iab, you will need the LWP::Simple Perl
module.

arp-scan uses automake and autoconf, so the typical installation process is:

$ ./configure
$ make
$ make check
$ make install

You can pass various options to "configure" to control the build and
installation process.  See the file INSTALL for more details.

arp-scan is known to compile and run on the following platforms:

 1. Linux (tested on Debian Sarge, Debian Etch and Fedora 9)
 2. FreeBSD (tested on FreeBSD 6.1 and FreeBSD 7.0)
 3. OpenBSD (tested on OpenBSD 3.9)
 4. NetBSD (tested on NetBSD 3.0.1)
 5. MacOS X (Darwin) (tested on MacOS 10.3.9)
 6. Solaris (tested on Solaris 9/SPARC and Solaris 10/x86)

The ARP packets are sent using raw datalink access.  The mechanism for this
varies between platforms, currently Packet Socket (Linux), BPF (BSD) and
DLPI (Solaris) are supported.  It is planned to add support for Win32 in
future releases.

All platforms use libpcap (http://www.tcpdump.org/) to receive the ARP
responses.

It was decided to implement the sending functions directly rather than using
libnet or libdnet because these libraries are not normally installed by
default, and it was considered desirable to minimise the need to install
additional packages.  By contrast, libpcap is a standard package on most
modern systems.


Documentation
-------------

The primary source of documentation is the arp-scan wiki at
http://www.nta-monitor.com/wiki/

For usage information, including details of all the options, use:

$ arp-scan --help

For more detailed documentation, see the manual pages: arp-scan(1),
arp-fingerprint(1), get-iab(1), get-oui(1) and mac-vendor(5).


Known Bugs
----------

1.  Tables in arp-scan man page don't display correctly on NetBSD and OpenBSD

The man page for arp-scan contains tbl tables.  These tables display OK on
Linux, FreeBSD and MacOS X, but do not display correctly on NetBSD or OpenBSD.
This is presumably because these OSes don't run man pages through tbl by
default, and don't recognise the first line of the man page: '\" t

2.  MacOS 10.3 gives warnings about functions pcap_datalink_val_to_name(),
pcap_datalink_val_to_description() and pcap_setnonblock() not being defined,
but it links and runs OK.

This appears to be due to MacOS 10.3 having libpcap 0.8 libraries, but only
0.7 headers.
